What happens when you initialize a repository? Why do you need to do it?

When you initialize a repository, it creates an empty .Git directory, and it tracks what files are in the git repository that haven't been tracked. This initializes the directory for git, and you need to do it so that git is aware of what files are in the directory that need to be tracked, allowing you to later create a commit with the needed files.

How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository? What value do you think it offers?

The staging area is a place to put files that you are ready to commit that could have changes. What it does is allow you to fine-tune which files should be submitted. For instance, you could have multiple files that you changed, but the changes should be logically separated. Also, separating files into separate commits allows you to write a message about what was changed in each file. This would allow you to choose which files are included in the commit, and write a message that is relevant for the changes made to the files in the repository.

How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical change?

The staging area allows you to fine-tune which files are part of a commit. Using the staging area, you can add one file at a time to make sure that only the one file is added to a commit, and repeat this for each file that needs to be committed. The will be especially useful if the changes to the files are logically different.

What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your history organized? How would branches help?

Branches are useful when multiple versions of an application are needed or desirable. This can be when testing new features, creating bleeding edge copies (such as betas), developing or testing in a different language, or even when just creating alternate versions of the application. Branches would help by allowing the additional - or different - code, while allowing you to maintain the original version of the code base.

.... (Additional reflections need inserted here) ....

What are the pros and cons of Git's automatic merging vs. always doing merges manually?

The pros of automatic merging is that it removes the tedious process of manually comparing changes to ensure the correct version of the file(s) are the ones that are committed in the merged versions. Having to do this manually would be pretty time-consuming, and would likely be error prone. At the same time, this could lead to erroneous changes being added to the commit.